Task-5

Advanced: Comparison with Other Sorting Algorithms
Compare the bubble sort algorithm with quicksort and mergesort. Discuss the advantages and
disadvantages of bubble sort in different scenarios. Additionally, analyze when it might be preferable to
use other sorting algorithms.

Bubble Sort :

1. Compare with neighboring element and performs swap accordingly.
2. No.fo comparisons n*(n-1)/2
3. Bubble sort is easy to perform
4. Bubble sort is the iterative approach

Quick Sort :

1. Compare the whole array with a fixed pivot element and swaps accordingly.
2. No.of comparisons: n*log(n) in best case n^2 in wort case
3. For largest arrays it is efficient
4. Quick sort is Recursive approach

Merge Sort :

1. It follows divide and conquer rule for sorting
2. No.of comparisons: nlog(n)
3. It is suitable for larger datasets
4. Time complexity of merge sort: O(n logn)
5. Merge sort is a recursive approach

ADVANTAGES OF BUBBLE SORT:

1. It is easy to implement and easy to perform
2. Suitable for smaller data sets
3. While sorting it does not needed the additional memory
4. As bubble sort is easy to implement, it is easily integrated in a code.
5. It is a stable sorting algorithm.

ADVANTAGES OF BUBBLE SORT:

1.It is easy to implement and easy to perform
2. Suitable for smaller data sets
3. While sorting it does not needed the additional memory
4.As bubble sort is easy to implement, it is easily integrated in a code.
5. It is a stable sorting algorithm.

Scenarios to prefers other sorting techniques rather than bubble sort:

 1. Whenever there are larger data sets prefer to use quick and merge sorts
 2. Whenever there are random or unpredictable arrays to sort then it prefres to use quick and
    merge sorts rather than bubble sort
 3. When we need to perform the sort quickly and optimized it prefers to use quick sort.
 4. For real world applications it is better not to use bubble sort .Instead use quick or merge sorts.
 5. Whenever the additional memory is not a constraint, then we can use quick or merge sort
    rather than bubble sort
 
